since last year I've just had this
existential dread and also
like hope
and optimism at in the same hour in the
same thought process of like what is
even a company going for it like what
like what are these structures going
forward?
And this is the only like durable one
structure that I could actually imagine
lasting for quite some time. And it it
was coming from a place of like wow is
our company just going to be completely
irrelevant you know in the next coming
years.
All right everybody we had Jack Dorsey
on the pod today founder of Twitter and
founder of Block.
He's the only founder to have two of his
companies end up on the S&P 500.
listening that today that's pretty cool.
Also Roelof Botha who's a Square partner
and is on Jack's board at Block. The
conversation was super interesting to
me. He recently put an article out that
you may have seen called from hierarchy
to intelligence. And it's a manifesto
on how to rethink
basically rethink from the first
principles how an organization works.
How do you completely eliminate
hierarchy and how do you put AI right in
the center and transform how your
company works and
I let him go on that and he was very
thoughtful and he spoke a lot about it.
Block is really changing the way it's
organized. Before we started he said I'd
love to get some feedback from you and
from other people on this. So if you get
comments on it let her rip. He wants
some feedback on it. He's in the early
innings of a big transformation over
there. That was about half of it. The
second half of it I just asked him for
like CEO advice. I work with lots of
CEOs as you folks know. Like how do you
build an amazing board? He's certainly
got some scars around board building.
How do you build your second act like
the cash app versus the the original
business of of Square. Is it a good idea
to be a CEO of two different companies
at the same time?
Being brave and not giving a flock
versus going with the flow and when do
you really dig in and when do you kind
of go with the flow? And he had some
really interesting thoughts on the job
of a modern CEO. So tune in. I'll be
back at the end and give you some
further thoughts but I I thought Jack
did a really nice job and and Roelof did
too. Let's get into it. Jack I read your
piece. I think it's fantastic from
hierarchy to intelligence.
Before we get into the meat of what it
is can you describe what you think is
wrong with the way normal companies
hierarchies work companies like HubSpot
companies like Block like what kind of
led you to this?
I don't know if um there's one thing
that's ultimately wrong. Um it's just
it's it's recognizing that
like what what do we what do we see in
the in the pattern? What what is the
function of the hierarchy?
And um what we wanted to explore is just
like what where does it actually come
from and and why did why does it exist
in the first place?
And if you look at it from first
principles it's all about information
flow
to a broad base of people. Um so being
able to communicate
over a breath of of people and
um have that be manageable at a human
scale.
So we've gotten into structures that you
know we've borrowed and
iterated on a little bit over 2,000
years. Yeah. Um and now we're we're
facing this
um
I think a a completely foundational
moment in being able to question every
element of how we work.
And the one that I think is questioned
the least is probably the hierarchy. And
probably about how we manage
communication flow around the companies.
So
if if we're in a world where we are
today where Block for instance is
completely remote or we're remote first
every single thing that we do creates
some sort of artifacts whether it be a
Slack message an email um pull request
code um
you know all these Google document a
meeting that we record all these things
have these artifacts of information
about how the company
is is working is building is failing is
making mistakes all these things.
And traditionally we've been relying
upon humans in a management structure in
a hierarchy
to go up and down a chain to relay that
information.
Instead we can take all of those
artifacts
and put an intelligence on top of it.
Build a model around it and actually
have a conversation with the company
about how the company is doing. And it's
not just me as CEO
that can do that but anyone in the
company could have that same sort of
access to information and and same
understanding of like what the company
can do. So you get to a point where you
can build these world models for
companies like treat the company as a as
a mini AGI for instance an artificial
general intelligence because it really
is. I mean if you look at a company it
is an intelligence but it hasn't been
structured in the way that's the most
efficient or um the least lossy in terms
of uh information flow and and what
people can actually do within the
company. So
um the technology is good enough today
that we can actually model the company.
We can have everyone in the company um
put in intent which would be strategy or
these artifacts and and we can also have
everyone in the company
query it as well and
and it just it really opens the door for
what's possible like you know Roelof and
I have a board meeting every quarter
where we we construct a bunch of board
docs slides presentations um
we get only so much time for them to
have questions but imagine if every
single board member can just query the
company and have a conversation with the
company's intelligence in real time and
we can make that that meeting time that
we that we have every quarter really
focused on more of the creative or
bigger existential decisions and issues
than the day-to-day. The same can be
said for like
our earnings call and analysts like you
giving them like fully reg FD possible
information that is on their timeline
with with their questioning.
Um but you can scale this to any
position or any role in the company
which is pretty phenomenal and like
we've just never had that ability before
and
and now we do and you know I think the
the architecture and the structure of
the company is ultimately going to
determine its velocity and how well it's
road map for customers correct.
And do just kind of drilling down on it
can you describe sort of
what the organization looked like
before? And granted you're very early in
this but what's it look like now? Which
roles have been eliminated? Um what are
the new roles? Um just kind of drill
down a little bit into what Block looks
like today and kind of where it's going.
Yeah we we we are early in it. Um I mean
just from a you know one one measurement
of of
how far along we are would be the depth
from me to any other individual in the
company. And I would say our our max
depth right now is probably five. Okay.
Uh folks between me and and anyone in
the company. Um I would want to get that
down to two to three
uh this year and in the most ideal case
you know there there is no layer
everyone in the company reports to me.
And that would be you know all all 6,000
of of the company and
that feels somewhat you know ridiculous
when you consider like the old structure
but when you consider
that um the majority of our work is
going through this intelligence layer um
it's a lot more manageable and it that
goes into the roles
uh going forward. We we want to
normalize down to just three roles. Mhm.
The first is an IC which is a a builder
or an operator. This is a sales person
this is an engineer it's a designer. Um
a product person like you know whatever
it is they're actually working
with the tools to build or to operate
the company. Mhm. Um they're augmented
because they have access to agents. So
you know one person can you know
potentially do the work or explore the
breath that you know it would take a
team or you know 10 people to do in the
past.
So that's number one and then I think
there's a durable human skill that lasts
there which is judgment and taste and
creativity. Mhm. Um so that's probably
the largest part of the population is
the builder and the operators ICs. The
second role is the DRI.
And that's someone who can own the
customer outcomes. Mhm. They're putting
uh strategy together. They're
understanding what road map
um uh allows us to solve customer
customer needs and and problems.
And they're assembling a team of these
ICs
uh to get something done. Um but the the
durable human
human skill there is ownership and
accountability. Um you know they're
really owning the the outcomes and
whether something is failing or not.
And then the last role would be what we
consider managers today
which we're calling a player coach. This
is someone who is building the
capability and the capacity of other
humans and their craft
but instead of telling them how to do it
they're showing them how to do it by
doing the work. So, these are these are
people who might be ICs or they might be
DRIs,
but they're also really good at giving
um coaching skills at at a coaching
skill to help the the people around them
get better and better and master their
craft.
And today, that's a management structure
where where these where ICs and even
DRIs report
to a player coach. Mhm. But I think in
the future, it's an assignment. It's not
a um reporting structure, but I'm
assigned to ICs or I'm assigned to DRIs
to help them master their craft. And
obviously, the durable human
uh skill there is building human
capacity and and coaching. Um and
there's a lot of empathy there and you
know, all the all the soft skills that
we recognized um great managers are are
known for.
Um
but but not
making it a requirement that they have
to
be strategic necessarily. They have to
build um because they need to show off
the skill and and and teach in that way,
but they don't necessarily need to be a
DRI. Now, I I in very rare cases,
one person can take on all three of
those roles. I think I can take on all
all three of those roles. My leadership
team is expected to take on all three of
those roles. They expected to build as
an IC or operate the company.
They're expected to be strategic and
actually think about road maps and
customer outcomes. And they're expected
to coach and um help raise the skill
level um around them uh with with the
people that they work with their with
their direct team.
Just a little kind of before and after
and your your mid on this and let's
pretend like it's working great and it's
2 years from now.
And it's extremely flat.
Like what is what is the role of the CEO
before and after? How's that Most of the
listeners, by the way, are CEOs.
Um what does like planning look like
before and after?
Um
what happens to all those people who are
directors and managers or the kind of
glue people? What are some kind of the
before and afters in your role?
I think um
my my my job as CEO in the past I
thought about in three ways. Number one
is to ensure that we have [snorts] the
right principles and the right
team dynamic. Mhm.
>> And that's like hiring and firing and
setting
values and setting the culture and
setting the tone. Mhm. The second is to
ensure that decisions are being made in
in context of our customers and industry
trends and competition.
And the third would be to raise the bar
on our execution. Like to constantly
increase our capability and and to push
ourselves in
to doing things that are uncomfortable
so that we're growing all the time. So,
that's how I thought about my job
up until this point.
I think in the in the future,
you you have those elements
certainly, but I think it's more about
like the architecture of how the
the company as an intelligence works.
And like if we're building a company as
an intelligence,
our job is as humans and and my job as
CEO is to constantly align it to where
we think the right outcome is. Mhm. And
I I see like, you know, visually I see
the the comp the intelligence, the world
model for the company in the center.
And then on the edge are the humans who
are just constantly aligning this
towards customer outcomes. Mhm. But even
even that changes, I believe,
because I think a company's ultimate
limiting factor
is its own road map.
And I think what what these technologies
point to
are that our customers are going to
they're going to have the expectation
that they
can ask for a future that doesn't exist
on a road map and that it just is served
to them. Mhm. And that's where like you
really get into the the layers of like,
okay, so what do we actually build? We
build up capabilities, which are
effectively our tools. Like we can issue
cards, we card acceptance, peer-to-peer
lending, all these things we do as a
financial technology company. Mhm. We
have these interfaces like Square, which
has a register and a dashboard. We have
Cash App, we have Title, we have Bitkey,
we have Proto. These are interfaces.
These actually touch the real world,
touch humans, and we can deliver our
capabilities in these interfaces. Today,
they're built with like these very
specific navigations that are our road
map and our understanding of what our
customers want.
When you move to the third layer, you
have proactive intelligence. We have all
this understanding
of our customers. We have We're moving
money. Money is the most honest signal
in the world. Um you can lie about
literally everything, but when a
transaction occurs, like that's that's
something that like really tells the
truth about your life or your business's
life.
And um based on that, we can actually
prompt our customers instead of waiting
for them to prompt us or having the
right question to ask. So,
we can do the very simple but very
valuable thing of like, how do we
protect
our customers' cash flow?
Like we have people using us as a bank
account.
How do we make sure that they can pay
the rent and they can pay their Spotify
bill and they can pay um their kids'
allowance and
and and this is all sequenced in a way
that allows them to never go to zero,
never go negative, and have some cushion
that allows them to even think about um
getting to saving or building wealth.
And and that's just, you know, peace of
mind, I think is the most critical
aspect here.
Um
so
if if we're enabling a customer, if
we're able to prompt a customer and also
they can ask like as a business, hey, I
have this inventory thing that I've been
using, but
it's missing this feature. Can I Can I
have this feature? We should just be
able to build that and compose it in
real time based on our capabilities.
If we can't,
and it points to a deficiency in
capabilities or a gap, that's our road
map. Yeah.
>> So, our our customers just by using and
talking with our systems are telling us
what our road map should be and then
it's up to us to give the judgment. Mhm.
And then the final layer is is the world
model. It's the customer world model.
It's the company world model. Our our
deep understanding of our of um
ourselves
and and also our customers. But I I
think like
if I had to if I had to say one one
thing that, you know, myself or anyone
in the company has to do,
it's I guess it's this overused phrase
of of judgment. Um but it is judgment
against like what we intend to build in
the world. Mhm. And is it on Is it
aligned with that judgment? Is it
aligned with the values? Is it aligned
with the taste
that we have and is it unique or is it
not? Mhm. And
I I guess in for my part I'm the um
extra checkpoint on like, is the
alignment
circle of humans, the edge of humans
actually working correctly?
In this I see how this works
exceptionally well for Block. You have a
lot of signal.
How does this work for
I don't know, Sierra, Workday, somebody
who doesn't have the quality signal, the
frequency of signals. Does it apply or
it doesn't work as well? I think it
probably does. It I think it it goes
down to like, are you building a Are you
building a business that like
understands something
of human nature deeply and it gets
deeper every single time.
And and that's a real tangible signal
that just doesn't go away or and if you
are, then I think you can build your
company as an intelligence. If you're
not, then it's probably a
an add-on to something else. Um
And I I think most of the industry is
thinking about AI as like a co-pilot, as
something that is augmented onto rather
than like, how do you just rebuild this
our whole company with this as the core?
Like
and if it doesn't make sense for your
business to do that and you end up being
or looking very similar or rhyming too
closely with um
the frontier labs,
then I I think it's going to be a
very very challenging to differentiate
and
and um
and and survive. And and that's kind of
what's been leading me to all this is
like I I just, you know, since uh
January of 2024, which is when these
tools really
uh came to bear. Like we
Goose, um which is a agent coding
harness,
was 1 month before Claude Code in
January of 2024. Mhm. And Claude Code
came out um the following month and then
like was really put into out of beta in
May of that year. Mhm. And
you know, that whole year I just spent
every single day for 3 hours every
morning
just pushing myself like, can I get it
to do something that I didn't think it
was capable of or I didn't think I was
capable of. Mhm. And every single day it
it worked. Like every single day I was
surprised.
And it's it's, you know, it's it I'm
sorry, it wasn't 2024, it's 2025. It's
only been a year of those tools.
Like 1 year. It just the the compounding
nature of this
um
is pretty incredible. So,
you know, being able to like uh
see that, understand it, and then
shift your company to be ahead of it, I
think is absolutely critical right now.
And I don't think people are feeling it
enough. Mhm. It it they're just living
in this abstraction of like, oh yeah,
like
uh these tools will make everyone in our
company 10x more productive. I I don't
think this is a productivity thing. I
think it's a structural thing that needs
to shift. I think you're right. I think
people are thinking of it as co-pilots
and individual productivity versus your
I think your idea is complete business
transformation and I think it's super
interesting and compelling. Can I add
one Yes.
Thought I've had as I've listened to
this so far.
You know, one of the one of my favorite
pieces uh of writing ever is Adam Smith,
Wealth of Nations.
And this idea that if you have the right
signals, you can rely on the
self-interested behavior of many small
participants in the system to actually
lead to optimal outcomes. But you just
need to have the right framework and the
right system. I think the way that many
companies work today
is a little bit more command and
control.
Very much.
>> And you have hierarchies and you have
political actions and people, you know,
jockeying for position and it's it's not
always clear what is actually true.
And I think part of what we're
envisioning here is you have a system
that's just ground truth.
And you do away with all the layers, you
get back to the kind of productivity
that
founders often long for. They long for
the days when they were 100 people and
not 500 people cuz they were so much
more productive. Why? Because you had,
you know, lots of transparency, limited
hierarchy.
And so I think the possibility here is
Jack was saying is instead of just
focusing on individual productivity, you
reimagine how we work together as
humans.
And you can do it with far smaller
number of people that are far more
productive, yes, but there's a different
way of working together where you get
the right signals. And it's a it's much
much more similar to a capitalist system
where the signals tell you what to
build. It's not somebody who pounds the
table harder who gets their product
approved. It's just listen, more
customers want this than that. That's
how that's how we're going to decide
what to build next. So for me, there's
something quite magical in that
realization. Yeah. About 4 years into
building HubSpot, I eliminated no org
charts, no titles,
and everyone lost their mind. They
didn't like the idea.
And we ran that for about 9 months and I
got worn down and I brought it back. The
thing we didn't have was an intelligence
system that had all those signals that
could help us make decisions. So it's
exciting to see this year.
I have a theory I want to run by you,
Roelof. Like I sort of think of
like there's manager mode,
it's a pyramid.
The VPs make most of the decisions.
And there's founder mode, kind of flat.
The founder makes a lot of decisions.
And then there's I'm just going to call
it Dorsey mode. It's a circle and the AI
makes most of the decisions. Do you buy
that?
Well, I don't think the AI makes most of
the decisions. I think that and Jack
should correct me here. I think the AI
helps with
um
communicating the alignment.
And the management team or the inner
core helps set the framework. What is
the objective function? Are we
optimizing for
growth rate, gross profit per employee,
net promoter score, probably some
combination of those variables. And the
humans at the edges perform an
incredibly valuable function of
correcting and informing
and sort of steering that. And I think
one of the phrases that Jack has, which
I absolutely love and I've stolen so
many times, is companies have multiple
founding moments. Yeah.
There's so many smart people in your
company that have clever ideas that
every day inflect the product, introduce
something new. And so this idea that
there's just, you know, one person who
is the brilliant person who comes up
with everything. I just don't think, you
know, I don't believe in hero worship or
uh the converse of that where you you
sort of scapegoat people. I think it's
harnessing the best of of your team to
really advance the company. So I
subscribe to the circle idea.
Yeah, I I I also don't think the AI is
making the majority of the decisions. I
think it's facilitating
Right. a more context-rich decision.
I I think ultimately like in the most
ideal case, our customers are actually
making
the majority of the decision decisions
because they're
just based on their queries and what
they're trying to do with the system.
Um
delineates like where our road map
should go. And then it's up up to our
judgment as to whether that's consistent
with what we want to be and what we
think is most strategic or not.
Um but we we just, you know,
we weren't able to get to that level of
data fidelity before. Um because we had
to infer it. We had to do customer
research. We had to do interviews. We
had to do
um look at our customer support. Um
You know, product feedback on on on
Twitter, all these other things.
But when your interface is a
conversation with your customer instead
of like this visual navigation,
you suddenly get like this amazing
fidelity of like what do our customers
actually care about? What do they
actually want? Mhm. And it's up to us
then to decide if that's consistent with
what we want to be as a company or if
they should be going elsewhere to to to
do that. And then
I think all these things are going to
blur. That I mean, that's the craziest
thing is like
you know, again since since last year,
I've just had this existential dread and
also
like hope
uh and optimism at in the same hour in
the same thought process of like what is
a what is even a company going forward?
Like what like what are these structures
going forward?
And this is the only like durable one
structure that I could actually imagine
lasting for quite some time. Yeah. Um
and it was coming from a place of like,
"Wow, is our company just going to be
completely irrelevant Yeah. you know, in
in the next coming years or or even even
sooner? Like what do we
what do we actually differentiate on?
What what do we have a a moat around?
And what what do we need to be to defend
and and also to to grow that? Um
And like what are the and all that
follows from customer expectation. Like
it the most amazing thing about Open
Core to me
was that um
people
wanted to take this thing and contain it
into a Mac mini and make it very
tangibly theirs.
Um and have all this agency around what
they did with it. And we're seeing
Square sellers do stuff with it like
that.
Interface with the the Square um
APIs.
And we're seeing Cash App customers. And
and these are like not
tech people. These are just like people
I I want a I want a bot to help me
manage my life. That agency
independent of what your thoughts on
like how good of a system Open Core is
right now, it'll get better and better.
But the intent behind that is is agency.
I want to tangibly control this
intelligence and and for it to to better
me
and and what it makes possible for me
is incredible. And and that expectation
floor has just risen dramatically. And
and and that leads me again to like
yeah, our our limiting factor as a
company is our road map. Like we need to
remove that from the equation. We need
to ensure that our customers are truly
building alongside us. Mhm.
And and that they, you know, are seeing
us as a
as a series of capabilities that makes
their desires fast and easy and Yeah.
and valuable. So like it it really goes
back to the the capability set that we
have.
And then like the intuition of the
interface that we have. And then like
how intelligent our world models can can
be to to be helpful and to compose UI in
real time.
Um I spent this morning at a company we
call Rogo here in New York City. They
read your article. Let's say you're
advising the CEO of a 100-person
company.
They've already got their hierarchy.
What should they do? Should they start
with their system? Should they start
with data? Should they start with their
org? Like
how should people go about,
you know, running the Dorsey playbook?
Uh I don't know about this Dorsey
playbook thing, but
>> [laughter]
>> um Well, we don't have it all figured
out. I think there's an important dose
of humility that we have that we really
bring on this path. We believe it's
right, but we we know there's a lot to
figure out. Yeah, it it's more like if
if you were to
at at 100 people or even, you know, just
starting today, if you were to build
your company as an AGI, as an
intelligence, what would it look like?
And what would you need uh to really
differentiate? Like
if I were starting a company today, I
would be so excited about how quickly I
could build things and how quickly I
could prototype and
get things out to customers. I would be
um in this like valley of dread about
distribution Yeah. and attention because
there is so much noise out there and
it's so hard to get to the actual signal
of like who's building something
interesting
that will actually fundamentally change
something and will be around for more
than a year. Yeah. It it's like I think
distribution really becomes a
differentiator. And I think there's some
event horizon
where the the way we think about
distribution today closes off.
You know, it like there's
there's um the you know,
apps for instance and websites and
uh like the the traditional retail.
There there's a number of
things that will will change. And if you
don't have the distribution today, it's
going to be very hard to fight for that.
But there'll be new areas of
distribution that are probably more
important. And I don't know what those
look like.
But I would say like I would I would
assume that a company of 100 probably is
no more than
two to three layers deep, hopefully.
Um And now would be the time to just
like really question
like do I
do I need a hierarchy? Like Brian,
a year into Square, I also we removed
titles. We normalized everyone to lead.
Yeah. We did it for like we were talking
with all these banks all the time and
you would have these EVPs and VPs and
they were looking for the same on a
business card. And there's this whole
business card culture. Yep. So we ripped
up all the business cards. We we
normalized down to a title of like
you're a lead of what. And the longer
that is behind lead is
probably the farther down you are in the
organization. Um
And we've kept it. Like we we, you know,
we don't have titles. We we have like,
you know, what do you lead? Um going
back to like the DRI thing, what what
are you ultimately responsible for?
And I I think it's helped us
a lot. Um
But this is an another step. Like it if
if you're starting today or you're 100
today, like
what what is actually fundamental to
solving your your customer's problems
and and and where is the hierarchy
getting in the way of that?
And look at all the tools you're using.
Like look at all the information you're
generating just by doing your work.
Like just putting that into an
intelligence and being able to query it
will
give you an understanding of the company
that like is two to three times more
than you had before ever. Because you're
relying upon on people telling you
things.
And you know
that doesn't always happen for various
reasons that you know Roelof spoke to in
terms of agenda or politics or emotions
or empathy all all these things.
If imagine if your company was entirely
legible.
Like entirely legible every aspect of it
and we're not far off from that from a
data perspective. It's putting the
intelligence on top of it and making it
um useful and then making it proactive.
Like that's that's the hardest bet is
like we can determine causal
getting to predictability for these
world models around the company and and
customer is
is still right now a very much a
research but um but like it's it's one
that
you know it it's eminently solvable.
Can you guys just take me behind the
scenes? Like Jack this was a
really bold move. You laid off 40% of
your employees.
Just like for CEOs listening what was
that debate inside like how big it
should it be how bold should it be?
You know Ruth Porat's got this good line
if you're going to
we can eat a [__] sandwich don't nibble
and you seem like you took a big bite.
What was that debate behind the scenes
and then Roelof like
how did he pitch it to you guys and what
was the board's reaction just like
behind the scenes on that? Yeah.
So um
it was something you know
December of last year is when the is the
when the models really got a uh
like noticeable full upgrade from being
able to be really good at building
prototypes and greenfield efforts to
like understanding like large code bases
and legacy code bases like our own.
Um
there was you know hallucination wasn't
much of a topic in terms of like the the
coding ability and
the tool harnesses we became suddenly
very mature. Like just in that month.
And um
it just like every everyone went home
for the holidays and everyone
played with these tools and they were
surprised at how capable they were
uh and what they could do with them and
you know we came back and
the conversation was like
just going around the table would would
you build the company that this way
if you had these tools today? Like what
would the company look like? And
everyone around the table in my team
just said like it would not look like
this. It would not be this size. It
would not be structured this way.
And we've been making like
changes on the on the edge like you know
going from a GM structure to a
functional structure to
reduce like putting a a cap on our
layers to four me plus four and
all these like small things um
but if we were to really reboot and
rebuild the company like would we end up
where we where we look today and the
answer was uniformly no.
Yeah. And and then we just did this
exercise of like
okay so what is the minimum number of
people that we would need to keep the
service up 100%?
And then next what is the minimum number
of people that we would need to
um be
to to uh fully um be in compliance with
our regulators.
Uh we're highly regulated business so
that one's extremely important to us
and legal obviously.
And then third what is the minimal set
of folks that we need in order to grow
to fulfill our commitments we've made to
the street but also rebuild the company
as an intelligence and that's
roughly the number that we got to and we
built in
some buffer in case we made mistakes
which we did and you know it
hard hard not to um
especially operating the way we have.
Like I think going forward it'll be much
easier because more of the company will
be legible and all of our actions will
be a lot more legible so I'd have a lot
more confidence going forward than not.
But um
it was it was that and and and that was
a span of you know
exploration to execution and and you
know under under three weeks um and I I
think generally
I wanted to make sure that we
if we knew that this was what our
company was going to be in the future
I didn't want to have to do it with our
backs against the wall. We're a public
company
and there's various challenges there and
other companies will
will probably get to this realization at
some point. I don't want to react to
that. I want to
I want to um
I want to be ahead of it because then we
can do it
with a lot more integrity. We can do it
with a lot more generosity for the
people that we're asking to to leave
um and even for the people that we're
asking to stay
and we're we're not just reacting into
um something mediocre. We're we're you
know
uh acting towards excellence and and
like that's just the tone that we wanted
to set. So
um
you know every every day it was just
like constantly checking like are we
doing the right thing? Is this
the right set of folks? Like um
like what are we not thinking about?
What are we not talking about? And we
you know we kept the the group very very
tight.
Um and
had a conversation with with the board
um
which was uh
my perspective
very open to it and and actually more
more than open more like yes we agree
like we we should we should do this but
I'll I'll let Roelof speak to that.
It was a very quick process. Okay. I
think part of what helps is that Jack
had written us a very detailed note
laying out the logic. It's principled.
It's not
re- as Jack was saying it's not
reactionary. It's very well laid out
very logical.
It was clear that the company and the
management team was interested in the
conversation about how to make this work
um as opposed to being dogmatic and
saying we have it all figured out. So
even in the course of those three weeks
elements of this evolved and it evolved
in light of feedback from management
team members and board members. You know
some of some of where we started in in
the first of those three weeks is
different from where we in ultimately
landed by the time the announcement took
place.
And also I think it's is the an example
of where we've built enormous trust
between the board and the management
team. You know we've been through a lot
as a team
and so we have a lot of short hands to
be able to make crucial decisions like
this. We gathered several times in quick
succession to make sure we drilled in on
the key issues.
And the board was fully supportive.
You two Roelof you've been on a lot of
boards. Jack you've had your ups and
downs with different boards. Any advice
for these CEOs listening that
should they start bringing in 100
employees? Should they start bringing in
independence? Should they like how do
you build an amazing board that really
serves the
the company well the employees well the
investors well the customers well. Like
what's your advice on that?
I mean early on I always told myself and
my team that like
your your first board is your investors
right? Um and uh
I would treat
that relationship as a hire you can
never fire and in fact they can fire you
and I've been on the other side of that.
So
it really puts pressure on finding the
right person that you'd actually want to
work with at the company knowing that
you could never fire them.
Uh and and again they can fire you.
And for me it was around you know I I
think a lot of young founders kind of go
for the brand names
uh especially around VCs but
I always uh wanted to go for the for the
person um and you know that's why
uh Roelof um you know we we were we were
optimizing for for him to be on our
board
and be an investor but like it was
it was the fact that like he would
uplevel our conversation uplevel our
execution more than anything else and
challenge us along the way.
Um
so
even as you think about adding
independent board members like the
the core function of a board is to
ensure that the company has the right
CEO. Like that's their one job.
Um they have all these committee
responsibilities and but the ultimate
fiduciary
duty is like do we have the right CEO
going forward?
And I think you have to build a board
that has different perspective on that.
Um and that is open to
wild ideas that things that are going to
just seem like crazy uh in the moment
which like this one might might be.
Um but it can be rationalized if we talk
through it and we like really
document it and paint a picture of like
where the where this could go and like
what the opportunity cost is if we don't
do something um because
like if we didn't do something like this
I just imagine like every year it's a
10% riff or 20% riff or whatever it is
and like
that is just the most demoralizing
like crappy like non-creative building
of a company ever. And it's all you know
with your backs against the wall and
like it just feels like losing
constantly. Um and
I you know I had a conversation with the
board about I don't want that. Like
that's not
I don't want to be at a company like
that. Like it it's just it doesn't make
sense. It's soul-crushing you know and
it's just not not inspiring and I I feel
good about it. So
here's here's what I do feel good about
and like let's let's go. Let's let's
challenge it.
Well, Jack, you're on a lot of boards.
You're on some really good ones.
Advice for CEOs how to build a board.
>> [snorts]
>> I think the first financing when you get
an investor if you're getting an
investor board member, you should treat
it as a recruiting decision.
Not a financing decision.
Cuz they'll have a much bigger bearing
on the ultimate outcome of your company.
And then I'm generally a fan of getting
a very good independent board member
within a year or two. Okay. Uh certainly
by the time you get product market fit.
And I think there's a a different
relationship that the
founder has with the investor board
member by virtue of what Jack, you know,
described that sometimes, you know, that
person may
come to the conclusion that the founder
is no longer the right person to run the
company, maybe rightly, maybe wrongly.
Um if you can get an independent board
member, there's a different relationship
that the founder has with that board
member. And especially if that person
has previous experience, it can be a
fantastic mental relationship to help
the founder on that journey depending
obviously on their level of experience.
Um
I think boards are often built too late
in a rush, especially in the run-up to
an IPO where people suddenly realize,
"Ooh, I've got a four-person board and I
need nine." or whatever the case is. And
then you suddenly assemble people who
have no context, they have no history,
and they have no chemistry. Cuz you will
be tested.
You're going to have a situation where
there's a short seller report or you're
dealing with a hostile, you know,
situation with uh activist investor or a
tricky financing, you know, that really
test the metal of the team. And you want
to understand the dynamic between the
board members and just their willingness
to go along and their alignment with the
core values of the business. And so I
just think it's one of those things that
requires a lot more care than I think
most people apply to it. Yeah.
Jack, you you've started couple great
companies here. You're kind of startup
founder.
Scale-up CEO. Uh Brian, he he he was uh
the only person to have founded two
companies that made it into the S&P 500.
>> amazing. And the only person to have
been simultaneously CEO of two public
companies. Okay, Jack. Just for the
record. Then this
>> Which should not be should not be a goal
for anyone, by the
>> [laughter]
>> Recommend he CEO of two companies?
Is it ever a good idea?
Not public companies. Yeah. Private,
maybe. Private private I would I would I
I think there's probably going to be
more of a trend where
people are leading multiple companies
that are private, but public companies
like I should be like an anti-goal. It's
an anti-pattern. What can founder CEOs
learn from like what did you do right?
What did you just get wrong? What advice
do you have for
that 100-person company CEO
Yeah, what do you got?
My only regrets in life and and also in
our in our businesses
um are where I
decided not to learn something.
Okay.
Because I like I I embrace all of our
mistakes and all of the bad decisions we
made, but like if I'm not learning from
that uh actively learning from it, like
that's that's what I regret.
And
um
you know, in in in in probably the worst
case
in any of these companies um
like just delegating way too much. Yeah.
Um especially especially within Block
because like I wanted to set a structure
where we had multiple CEOs in this
company, but I realized, "Oh man, we're
we're just building like a holding
company now." Yeah. And like we got we
got like, you know, the CEO over here
for Square and CEO over here for Cash
App and
like the value of our company is not
like these
you know, unrelated things that are
growing at different clips. It's how do
we bring them together and like, you
know,
really, you know, um
challenge the whole financial network in
entirely because we have we both sides
of the counter. So like
why aren't we structured that way? Mhm.
And that I think led to
just very differing cultures and values
and execution levels and
um
that was a mess. So I I think the the
one
thing that I I probably consistently
would have corrected would be just
delegating too much, you know, too too
uh
too much of that and I didn't learn that
fast enough. Like that's that's the
regret is I didn't choose to to learn
from that fast enough.
Um
but when you have your whole your whole
your entire company is legible, it's a
very different equation. Mhm. Um
and
I think my regrets going forward if I
were to predict them would be like am I
actually putting enough
entropy into the system like enough of
the intent into the system
to actually keep us relevant going
forward. Um
and and that's hence the shift. Like I I
I can't imagine doing anything bigger
than
rebuilding our company as an
intelligence
um
or more correct uh given where where
everything is trending.
So
it just it feels like I have to
constantly build
uh and constantly learn from whatever
we're putting out there in order for our
us to stay relevant um going forward.
So there's one anecdote that came up
Jack last week, which is how different
meetings are today. They're obviously
Maybe you can talk about how frequent
meetings are taking place now.
And what's the color? What what are the
nature of the meetings today versus what
they were a year ago? Well, I mean just
two months ago uh every meeting that we
would have with a company I mean you you
have this Brian like
you see a presentation or Google Doc and
we go through it. Yeah.
Now um everyone is bringing a prototype
that they built. Yeah. Which is pretty
amazing. And like it's either simulated
data or real data.
But it's a cut on
their work in a way that's far more um
has far more depth and and realism
than we could ever get from a slide
deck.
And because they can actually modify it
in real time, like we can have a
conversation around like what they're
actually building in real time. Mhm. Um
so like the the breadth that we get to
explore is suddenly in incredible. And
that allows us to like really, again, it
goes back to judgment. Like which thread
are we pulling on this now? Because we
can see like everything in the
horizontal.
Where do we want to go like deep? And
like what what is the right path?
And and the cost of like being wrong on
that path and going back up the tree and
going down another path is getting
closer and closer to zero because the
tools can explore the path so quickly
and then also we can go down them much
much faster.
I I I I completely agree with you. Like
a lot of times in the past history what
worked was when we were doing a lot of
different stuff and we were distracted.
It's like let's just get focused and
then we made progress.
I see the startups these days doing more
things in parallel and just being more
productive and getting more done. And I
used to preach focus. I don't preach it
as much as I do. What do you ever have
either of you have a reaction to that?
Yeah, it's uh I think it's
I think it's having a wider perspective
to start and then
like because in in the past uh if we
were to explore different paths
like it would be a
uh you know, three it'd be a very costly
exercise, especially with in hardware
for instance. Take you a long time to
build that prototype. But today we can
do it in an hour. Yeah. And then um
so I I do encourage more exploration.
But I think focus on getting the the
details right when we do choose that
path and like it's the 80/20 percent
thing, which is like
you know, these tools will build about
80% of what where we need to go. Yeah.
And then that last 20% is going to be a
function of like how good our
creativity, how good our taste is, how
good our judgment is. Yeah. And um
and just constantly pushing these these
models to to doing something they
weren't they weren't we didn't think
they were capable of. And that's where I
think the magic still happens and where
where I think the
the focus still
comes to bear. Um
because at at the end of the day you
have to
right now you have to pick something to
put out there
because we do have a roadmap. But when
you remove that limiting factor as I
said and you focus on building the four
things instead like, you know, the
capabilities, the interface, proactive
intelligence, and the world model, then,
you know, it just changes everything. So
I don't even know if the question
matters anymore. Yeah. A lot of CEOs are
struggling with the second acts. And
you've done amazing second act work at
Block. You did interesting stuff with
Blue Sky, interesting stuff with Spiral.
Advice to CEOs trying to figure that
second act out. Uh I don't know if I
ever considered it to be like a second
act. It's just something that like we
had I wanted to do and I had to do and
it was interesting. Are you building
something new? It's distracting to the
org and like how do you resource it?
Well, Cash App was like that in the
early days. Yeah. Well, that that's
that's a good point. Like so I think
every leader has to be comfortable with
losing credibility with
their stakeholders. That's the point. In
order to do something interesting like
when when we we had multiple moments and
these are the founding moments that
um I think are are critical for a
company, but like
we were we started with our card reader.
Eventually we determined that, "Hey, we
should probably lend money to sellers
because like
no seller wants to accept credit cards.
What they want is to um get more sales.
And what helps them get more sales? More
capital to deploy into their business."
When we first brought it to our board,
um
our board said, "Absolutely no. Like
you're not getting in the lending
business. Like it's ridiculous."
And we lost I lost some credibility with
with um
you know, the board and our population
cuz we wanted to do this and we kept
pushing it and pushing it and eventually
they said yes. Cash App was the same
thing where we were about merchants. Our
mission was make commerce easy. Mhm. And
we built this thing that allowed
effortless peer-to-peer as effortless as
just, you know, sending an email to
start. And
our our our our COO at the time was
on the founding team of PayPal, Roelof
or Keith Rabois. Yeah. And even he said
no and he said like, you know, this is a
solved problem.
Everyone in the company hated Cash App.
It was a team of eight people.
And hated it for
two to three years that we we mentioned
it less than eight times in our
S-1 to to go public. Um our investors
didn't understand it at all.
And every day that I allowed it to
persist and defended it, I lost
credibility.
And I knew that I could earn it back if
it if we saw success there and we did.
Like we we monetized it and it became
profitable and, you know, it's now over
half our business and um so it I think
it's getting comfortable with like
you're going to lose credibility and if
you have an understanding of like how to
earn that back,
uh it's okay and you don't have to care
about like what what people think if you
have the principle of why it's important
and why this needs to exist and and
you're okay with, yep, people aren't
going to trust me for a bit and it's
okay. Um I'm I'm staking part of my
reputation on this and this is why I
believe it. I think it makes all those
answers stronger, by the way. I have a a
weird story for you. When Sequoia was
hiring me, they write a memo when
they're investing in a company or when
they're hiring someone and the memo on
me was one of my strengths was I was
DGAF, don't give a flock, and one of my
weaknesses was I was DGAF, I don't give
a flock. Um you strike me as someone
who's has high DGAF
and you stick with your convictions for
very long periods of time. Founders
struggle with that. I struggle with
that. Advice.
Yeah.
I would say it wavers for me. Like it it
it's definitely um
I get a lot of hate, a lot of pushback,
a lot of challenges like internally,
externally, um
but again, it's uh
I I made a I made a decision some time
ago when I first became CEO of Twitter.
Everyone was telling me I needed a
uh CEO coach. Mhm. And I got the CEO
coach and he was a great guy, but like I
was learning absolutely nothing. Mhm.
And it it just reminded me of all these
times when you put so much emphasis on
like who's my mentor, who am I learning
from, who's my mentor, who am I learning
from.
And around that time, I just decided I'm
going to shift my mindset and
every single person I talk with, every
single encounter I have, every single
problem I face,
that's my mentor. Mhm. To to for it to
be a mentor, I have to decide that I'm
going to learn something from it. Like
every every every encounter I have is
trying to teach me something and what am
I trying to learn from it. And just I
would force myself to like write it down
like every day and every encounter and
just like, what did I learn from this?
And again, my biggest regrets are when I
decided not to learn something from it.
Because it's likely that I would have
repeated it or what not. So even the
negative feedback um or the credibility
loss is a is a teaching moment. And it's
just a decision of like, am I learning
from this or not? And that allows you
ownership over it. Like it just like it
gives you agency over all this stuff.
Like, what is this thing trying to tell
me right now? Like what am I ignoring?
What am I being stubborn about? Um
and uh you know, sometimes I I get to
the right answer, sometimes I don't and
I just like continue in my ways and it's
a failure, but
I just having that mindset
instead of having this one mentor in
your life, now you have infinite
mentors. It's like, you know, it's
it's uh it's just an amazing way to
approach life and challenges that that I
found.
You're definitely a learner and talk a
lot about it on other I've seen you talk
about it a lot. You're a meditator.
Should all CEOs meditate? Um what are
the benefits you get as a CEO?
And what do you take from Marc
Andreessen talking about how he's
very he's not introspective. I thought
that was an interesting comment. Like
talk about in meditation, CEOs, what do
you get from it?
Yeah.
Him him saying that he's not
introspective is very introspective, I
think. I thought that was interesting.
Just to be clear.
Um
I don't I didn't get a lot from that,
but I I do think um
the when people think of meditation,
they think of like this woo-woo like,
you know, person in the desert and uh
I've been characterized as that and
looking at the clouds and like imagine
the clouds going by and your thoughts
are the clouds and you know, make them
dissipate. But if you actually get into
like true meditation, it's a very
physical thing. Like it's a very
physical um practice and what you're
doing is you're training your mind to
focus on one point. One point. Like the
the meditation retreats I did were 10
days and you spend the first 3 days
sitting from 4:30 in the morning till
9:00 p.m. Yep. focusing on the feeling
of your breath on your upper lip. Yep.
Just that and just the sensation of it.
And what you're training your mind to do
is to
sharpen your focus
and then just to observe. Observe the
sensation without reacting to it from an
emotional intellectual standpoint. Mhm.
And then the next 7 days, you go up and
down your body and you're scanning for
sensations like pain
and you're sitting cross-legged and you
can't move for 3 hours at a time. Mhm.
And it's super painful. And you actually
observe this pain and you're just like
you're you're constantly with this
mindset of like, this isn't permanent.
If I were to stand up, it goes away.
Mhm. And it's just that that training
your mind to like recognize everything
is impermanent. There's no need to
suffer or be attached to something
that's going to go away. Mhm.
>> Like you and you're doing it in this
very small physical way,
but then you apply that whole concept to
your
to your whole life, every emotion or
reaction or en- encounter you have. So I
would recommend it only because it
sharpens your focus,
it sharpens your power of observation
and it diminishes your instinct to
immediately react to things. And to
actually see them for what they are and
then choose how you want to act with
that information. Mhm. So if you think
about it as like a woo-woo
you know, head in the clouds, then
that's what you're going to get from it.
If you see it as a physical practice to
make your mind stronger, Mhm. you'll get
that and and that's that's what I see
and that's what you practice. Mhm.
Let me just close on I start with you,
Roelof. There's some timeless qualities
of CEOs
um
that last the test of time and Roelof,
you're involved with YouTube, Instagram,
Block, [__] Unity. What are timeless
CEO qualities?
And what is new? Like what are the new
qualities CEOs need today?
I like acronyms, so I came up with one
which is um ALE.
Mhm. A L E. Which is sort of not a very
pleasant drink for most people, but
anyway, um authenticity, logic and
empathy.
So authenticity, I mean, are you,
you know, are are you pretentious? Are
you who you
Do people see who you really are? Do you
behave authentically?
Are you logical? Are you predictable?
Are you rational? Or do you fly off the
handle?
Uh and are you empathetic? Do you really
care about the team that you manage? Do
you really care about the business?
>> Weird. Uh or you know, sort of opposite
of being a sociopath, perhaps, but deep
empathy. So I think of those three
qualities, I mean, there are many more
that one could list, but you know,
I think it's
just hard to keep it in your mind. So
for me, those are the three most
important, authenticity, logic and
empathy.
I think when it comes to dealing with
humans, most of those things stay the
same.
And I remember how many of us thought
the world was going to be so different
in the midst of COVID and I listened to
a talk that Steven Pinker gave and he
talked about how
probably things are going to go back
largely the way they were before. Mhm.
But I think the same is true here. Yes,
companies are being built differently.
Yes, AI is absolutely transformational.
It's going to upend so many industries.
I think it's the biggest drainer of
moats companies have ever seen.
But some of the, you know, basics of
dealing with people uh and leading
remain true.
>> Mhm. The one I would say is probably
different is the pace of of change is so
fast.
>> Mhm.
And I think, you know, kudos again to
Jack for the the the speed with which
we're moving on this decision cuz it
would have been easy to dither for 6 or
12 months on this decision. Mhm. So
you've got to move fast. Mhm. Jack,
thoughts on that?
Like you're you've hired some amazing
people in your career that have gone on
to do some amazing stuff.
What do you What do you think? And
what's changed What's What's timeless?
What's changed?
I value someone who's
able to reprogram their
mind and assumptions constantly.
>> Mhm. Um I mean, this is stated a lot,
but just being able to question your own
requirements, your own assumptions and
your own decisions Mhm. or how rigid you
are towards your past, the company's
past and sacred cows or
what the competition is doing. Mhm. Um
it's just, you know, being able to like
go wild for a bit and then also being
able to
get that entire corpus down to something
that's actually manageable and that can
be articulated in a way that other
people understand.
I think that's extremely valuable. Has
it been valuable or is more valuable cuz
things are moving so fast right now? I
think it's more valuable. Like it being
able Yeah, I mean,
I think it's going to be so easy to go
along with the momentum of what's
happening around us today.
And it's going to be increasingly
hard to break free of that momentum
given what what the tools do and like
this is the way we do things and
I think people will um
because we're offloading some of our
intelligence to intelligences Yeah. and
people will go along with uh more likely
to to default to what these things are
suggesting Mhm. rather than seeing them
as an input. Like I I think we're we're
still in a mode where most people are
seeing all what the intelligences do
these tools do as output rather than
better input to create better output
ourselves. Mhm. And I like I think
that's important to me like when I was
doing that like every day 3 hours like
this is input to me. Mhm. And it's now
up to me to like really
um
make better output from like all this
new input that I have and like the
ability to just take all this and see it
at once it is just phenomenal. Mhm. So
having someone who's able to discern
signal from noise and
cool from not relevant, you know, like
there's there's this is highly overused
right now but
um the the taste thing is real Mhm. and
it's it's not just like
I know what things look good together.
It's more like do I have a point of
view?
Mhm. have a perspective and an
opinionated drive to get it there? And
is it
is it relevant? Is it more relevant than
than, you know, what else is out there?
Mhm. And I think that's that's critical.
That's what any founder is doing is like
I'm building something that didn't exist
in the world because I wanted to see it
there. Mhm. And and because it didn't
exist is why I'm building it. And I
think um
right now you're seeing a lot of
companies
they're just
copies of copies of copies of copies
because it's easy. Yeah. Instead of like
what's your what's your point of view?
Like what is what is opinionated in this
and like where where is it
pushing the the boundaries and where is
it uncomfortable? Mhm.
I think that's brilliant. It's a great
place to end. Thank you both for coming
on Long Strange Trip. I love the article
you wrote. I think it's going to be
game-changing for lots of companies.
Appreciate you both.
Thank you.
>> Thank you, Ryan. Thank Jack. Thank you.
Hope you liked that. I really enjoyed
speaking to him. He's an unusual Homo
Sapien
and he's got some interesting thoughts.
Um
I think his ideas on how to transform
the way you build a company and rethink
the hierarchy
they kind of make sense to me and I feel
like at some point in the future it's
somewhat inevitable that this kind of
thing is going to happen. And I I sort
of think of it as like when I grew up in
my career I worked at this company PTC
in the 90s. It was very very manager
mode. Uh very hierarchical.
Um the power rested in the VPs
essentially.
Um when I ran HubSpot
they didn't call it founder mode then
but it was kind of founder mode. Instead
of being a pyramid it was flat and a lot
of power was rested in the in the
founder's hands.
Um
He's sort of proposing the Dorsey mode
in my mind. He laughed about it when I
said it but I think of his like what's
next.
And it's more like a circle than a
really flat organization
and the power rests in the
kind of in the system and the system
makes a lot of decisions and can react
real time to the employees and the
customers but I think of Dorsey mode as
getting rid of the hierarchy all
together building
basically the brain, getting the inputs
right and having it making a lot of the
decisions that a hierarchy used to.
I think he's onto something. I'm curious
to see what you think. Um comment on
Twitter or comment in on YouTube. I'm
I'm curious about your thoughts on it. I
think Jack would be curious too. He's
[music] in the very early innings of
rolling this out and he's looking for
feedback on it. Anyway, appreciate you
all. Thanks for tuning in.